New post: default offline page for installed apps (#4956)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/default-offline/index.md

---
title: Basic offline page for web apps on Chrome Android
description: >
  From Chrome 109, the browser will automatically generate a default page to indicate that the app is currently offline when an installed web app on Android does not have its own offline experience.
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'

> date: 2023-01-24

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-01-25
```

authors:
  - ajara
hero: 'image/SeARmcA1EicLXagFnVOe0ou9cqK2/yLlcnEsQXWUZrBYExA6k.jpg'
alt: >

tags:
  - progressive-web-apps
---

Even while offline, installed platform apps can, at least, be launched. Frequently they include a page letting the user know internet access is not available, and some developers even create a full set of features that can be used while offline.

With web apps, the capability to work offline is more recent; it became possible with the launch of the [Service Worker API](/docs/workbox/service-worker-overview/). Also, when websites became installable, PWA added a [requirement](https://web.dev/install-criteria/) to register a service worker and implement its `fetch()` method in order for a web app to be installable.
The idea was to incentivize developers to provide their users at least a notice that the app couldn’t be used at the moment.

Now developers won’t need to do anything to get a default offline page, starting on Chrome 109 on Android, the browser will automatically generate a page that lets the user know when they are offline.

> If the app doesn’t implement a custom offline experience, when the user is offline, the default offline page uses the app’s icon and simple ‘You are offline’ message. Like the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the app doesn’t implement a custom offline experience, when the user is offline, the default offline page uses the app’s icon and simple **You are offline** message. Like the example below.
```

> {% Img src="image/SeARmcA1EicLXagFnVOe0ou9cqK2/uhTEeFoAp98gTxlA5kr7.png", alt="The default offline page for an example web app, where the logo is a pink circle and two plus signs, and it includes the message 'you are offline'", width="400", height="866" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/SeARmcA1EicLXagFnVOe0ou9cqK2/uhTEeFoAp98gTxlA5kr7.png", alt="The default offline page for an example web app, where the logo is a pink circle and two plus signs, and it includes the message 'you are offline'.", width="400", height="866" %}
```

> Visit this [glitch](https://glitch.com/~default-offline-count) to see the example above in action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit this [glitch](https://glitch.com/~default-offline-count) to see the previous example in action.
```

> The option to create your own custom offline page is still available, you can follow this video to serve your custom page, using Workbox, with a single line of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The option to create your own custom offline page is still available. The following video demonstrates how to serve your custom page, using Workbox, with a single line of code.
```
